feat(zkEVM): adds arithmetic state machine docs (#1353)
maticnetwork/matic-docs: docs/zkEVM/zkProver/arithmetic-sm.md

$$

Set the coefficients $a = 0$ and $b = 7$, so that $E$ reduces to

$$
y^2 = x^3 + 7.
$$

### Point Addition 

Given two points, $P = (x_1,y_1)$ and  $Q = (x_2,y_2)$, on the curve $E$ with $x_1 \neq x_2$, the point $P+Q = (x_3,y_3)$ is computed as follows,

$$
x_3 = s^2 - x_1 - x_2,\quad \\
y_3 = s (x_1 - x_3) - y_1
$$

### Point Doubling 

Given a point $P = (x_1,y_1)$ on the curve $E$ such that $P \neq \mathcal{O}$, the point $P+P = 2P =
(x_3,y_3)$ is computed as follows,

$$
x_3 = s^2 - 2x_1, \qquad\quad \\
y_3 = s (x_1 - x_3) - y_1,
$$

where,

$$
s = \dfrac{3x_1^2}{2y_1}.
$$

### Field Arithmetic 

Several 256-bit operations can be expressed in the following form:

$$
A \cdot B + C = D \cdot 2^{256} + E \tag{\bf{Eqn A}}
$$

where $A, B, C, D$ and $E$ are 256-bit integers.

For instance, if $C = 0$, then $\bf{Eqn\ A}$ states that the result of multiplying $A$ and $B$ is $E$ with a carry of $D$. That is, $D$ is the chunk that exceeds 256 bits. 

Or, if $B = 1$,  $\bf{Eqn\ A}$ states that the result of adding $A$ and $C$ is the same as before: $E$ with a carry of $D$. Similarly, division and modular reductions can also be expressed as derivatives of $\bf{Eqn\ A}$.

> **These operations are performed in the Arithmetic State Machine, with registers satisfying the following PIL relation**,

Author: Nope, it's part of the explanation so admonition doesn't seem to fit here.

$$

#### Remark
Since the above Elliptic Curve operations are implemented in the PIL language, it is more convenient to express them in terms of the constraints they must satisfy. These constraints are:

\begin{aligned}
\text{EQ}_0 \colon \quad &x_1 \cdot y_1 + x_2 - y_2 \cdot 2^{256} - y_3
= 0, \\
\text{EQ}_1 \colon \quad &s \cdot x_2 - s \cdot x_1 -y_2 + y_1 + q_0
\cdot p = 0, \\
\text{EQ}_2 \colon \quad & 2 \cdot s \cdot y_1 - 3 \cdot x_1 \cdot x_1 +
q_0 \cdot p = 0, \\
\text{EQ}_3 \colon \quad & s \cdot s - x_1 - x_2 - x_3 + q_1 \cdot p = 0, \\
\text{EQ}_4 \colon \quad & s \cdot x_1 - s \cdot x_3 - y_1 - y_3 + q_2
\cdot p = 0,
\end{aligned}

where $q_0,q_1,q_2 \in \mathbb{Z}$, implying that these equations hold true over the integers. 

This approach is taken in order to the need to compute divisions by $p$. Note that **only three possible computation scenarios can arise**:

1. $\text{EQ}_0$ is activated while the rest are deactivated,
2. $\text{EQ}_1$, $\text{EQ}_3$ and $\text{EQ}_4$ are activated but $\text{EQ}_0$ and $\text{EQ}_2$ are deactivated, 
3. $\text{EQ}_2$, $\text{EQ}_3$ and $\text{EQ}_4$ are activated and $\text{EQ}_0$ and $\text{EQ}_1$ are deactivated.

> Since at most, one of $\text{EQ}_1$ and $\text{EQ}_2$ are activated in any scenario, we can afford "sharing'' the same $q_0$ for both.

Author: Looks good to me 👀 But please commit if you have some suggestion.

Therefore, we obtain that:

$$
\begin{aligned}
\mathbf{eq}_{16} &= (x_1[1]
\cdot y_1[15]) + (x_1[2] \cdot y_1[14]) + \dots - y_2[0], \\
\mathbf{eq}_{17} &= (x_1[2] \cdot y_1[15]) + (x_1[3] \cdot y_1[14]) + \dots - y_2[1]
\end{aligned}
$$

and so on. 

Continuing until the last two:

$$
\begin{aligned}
\mathbf{eq}_{30} &= (x_1[15] \cdot y_1[15]) - y_2[14], \\
\mathbf{eq}_{31} &= -y_2[15]. 
\end{aligned}
$$

Now, notice that the $\mathbf{eq}_i$'s do not care about the carry they generate. That means, if $\mathbf{eq}_i = 10$, then what we really want the result to be is $0$ and save $1$ as a carry for the next operation. To express this fact as a constraint, we say that the following has to be satisfied:

$$
\mathbf{eq} + \text{carry} = \text{carry}' \cdot 2^{16},
$$

where $\text{carry}$ represents the carry taken into account in the actual clock, and $\text{carry}'$ represents the carry generated by the actual operation.

#### Remark
A technicality is that $\text{carry}$ is subdivided into two other $\text{carry}_L$ and $\text{carry}_H$ such that:

$$
\text{carry} = \text{carry}_L + \text{carry}_H \cdot 2^{18}.
$$

## Source Code

> The Polygon zkEVM Repo is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/0xPolygonHermez).

Author: ```suggestion
The Polygon zkEVM repository is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/0xPolygonHermez).
```

$$
\begin{aligned}
x_1,\ y_1,\ x_2,\ y_2,\ x_3,\ y_3.
\end{aligned}
$$

There is also a need to provide $s$ and $q_0,q_1,q_2$, which are also 256-bit field elements. 

## How Operations Are Performed

Compute the previous operations at 2-byte level. For instance, if one is performing the multiplication of $x_1$ and $y_1$, at the first clock $x_1[0] \cdot y_1[0]$ is computed. 

Then, $(x_1[0] \cdot y_1[1]) + (x_1[1] \cdot y_1[0])$ is computed in the second clock, followed by $(x_1[0] \cdot y_1[2]) + (x_1[1] \cdot y_1[1]) + (x_1[2] \cdot y_1[0])$ in the third, and so on. 

As depicted in the below figure, this process is completely analogous to the schoolbook multiplication. However, it is performed at 2-byte level, instead of decimal level.

![School Multiplication Example](figures/01arith-sch-mlt-eg.png)

Use the following notation:

$$
\begin{aligned}
\mathbf{eq\ } &= x_1[0] \cdot y_1[0] \\
\mathbf{eq'} &= x_1[0] \cdot y_1[1] + x_1[1] \cdot y_1[0]
\end{aligned}
$$

But then, the carry generated by $\mathbf{eq}$ has to be taken into account by $\mathbf{eq'}$.

> Going back to our equations; $\text{EQ}_0, \text{EQ}_1, \text{EQ}_2, \text{EQ}_4$; let's see how the operation is performed in $\text{EQ}_0$. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Going back to our equations $\text{EQ}_0, \text{EQ}_1, \text{EQ}_2, \text{EQ}_4$; let's see how the operation is performed in $\text{EQ}_0$. 
```

1. Compute $\mathbf{eq}_0 = (x_1[0] \cdot y_1[0]) + x_2[0] - y_3[0]$

2. Compute $\mathbf{eq}_1 = (x_1[0] \cdot y_1[1]) + (x_1[1] \cdot y_1[0]) + x_2[1] - y_3[1]$

3. $\mathbf{eq}_2 = (x_1[0] \cdot y_1[2]) + (x_1[1] \cdot y_1[1]) + (x_1[2] \cdot y_1[0]) + x_2[2] - y_3[2]$

This is continued until one reaches the computation, $\mathbf{eq}_{15} = (x_1[0] \cdot y_1[15]) + (x_1[1] \cdot y_1[14]) + \dots + x_2[15] - y_3[15]$. 

At this stage $y_2$ comes into place.

Since the first 256 bits of the result of the operation have been filled (and the result can be made of more than 256-bits), a new register is needed to store the rest of the output. We change the addition of $x_2[i] - y_3[i]$ by $-y_2[i]$. 

Therefore, we obtain that:

$$
\begin{aligned}
\mathbf{eq}_{16} &= (x_1[1]
\cdot y_1[15]) + (x_1[2] \cdot y_1[14]) + \dots - y_2[0], \\
\mathbf{eq}_{17} &= (x_1[2] \cdot y_1[15]) + (x_1[3] \cdot y_1[14]) + \dots - y_2[1]
\end{aligned}
$$

and so on. 

Continuing until the last two:

$$
\begin{aligned}
\mathbf{eq}_{30} &= (x_1[15] \cdot y_1[15]) - y_2[14], \\
\mathbf{eq}_{31} &= -y_2[15]. 
\end{aligned}
$$

> Now, notice that the $\mathbf{eq}_i$'s do not care about the carry they generate. That means, if $\mathbf{eq}_i = 10$, then what we really want the result to be is $0$ and save $1$ as a carry for the next operation. To express this fact as a constraint, we say that the following has to be satisfied:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, notice that the carry generated by the $\mathbf{eq}_i$'s is not important for them. That means, if $\mathbf{eq}_i = 10$, then what we really want the result to be is $0$ and save $1$ as a carry for the next operation. To express this fact as a constraint, we say that the following has to be satisfied:
```
